README.md, before:

![GMIT](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/SeanOhAileasa/blob/master/rc/gmit.png?raw=true)

### Graduate of BSc (Hons) Business Computing 🎓</br>University of Wales - Award Classification 2.1

##### Undergraduate (NFQ: 8) Higher Diploma in Data Analytics (GMIT)

###### ⚡ &nbsp;Earned: 60 Credits (Cr) - Total Cr Required: 75 - Stage GPA: 78

###### 🔭 Earning: 15 Cr - Official Semester September-December, 2021

| **GMIT Higher Diploma in Data Analytics Programme:**           | Credits | Grade   |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------|:-------:|:-------:|
| Machine Learning and Statistics (Python) &#x1F6A7;             | 5       | WIP     |
| Multi-Paradigm Programming (C/Java/Python) &#x1F6A7;           | 5       | WIP     |
| Data Representation (JS/API with Python) &#x1F6A7;             | 5       | WIP     |
|                                                                |         |         |
| Programming and Scripting (Python)                             | 10      | 75%     |
| Computer Architecture and Technology Convergence               | 5       | 80%     |
| Web Application Development (HTML/CSS/JavaScript)              | 5       | 80%     |
| Applied Databases (SQL/MongoDB/Python)                         | 5       | 80%     |
| Programming for Data Analysis (Python)                         | 10      | 75%     |
| Fundamentals of Data Analysis (Python)                         | 5       | 83%     |
| Computational Thinking with Algorithms (Python)                | 5       | 85%     |
| Work Placement (Graded Pass/Fail)                              | 15      | PASS    |

### GMIT - Higher Diploma in Science in Computing (Data Analytics)

###### Machine Learning and Statistics 

&emsp;&emsp;Course Material (WIP):

* { ["**mls**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/mls-machine-learning-statistics/blob/main/mls-machine-learning-statistics.ipynb) : &#x1F6A7; } 
<!--
23/08/2021
"update repository ./mls-t-test - A t-test is a statistical test that looks for differences in two collections of numbers. Simulating two collections of random numbers on a bell-shaped curve using numpy. Creating a DataFrame of the two collections generated and using seaborn to get a picture of whats going on."
-->

###### Multi-Paradigm Programming 

&emsp;&emsp;Course Material (WIP):

* { ["**mpp**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/mpp-multi-paradigm-programming/blob/main/mpp-multi-paradigm-programming.ipynb) : &#x1F6A7; } 
<!--
19/08/2021
"update repository ./mpp-multi-paradigm-programming."
-->
* { ["**C**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fubar-c/blob/main/fubar-c.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; }
<!--
30/08/2021
"update repository ./fubar-c - Functions."
-->
* { ["**Python**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fubar-python/blob/main/fubar-python.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; }

* { ["**Java**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fubar-java/blob/main/fubar-java.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; }

###### Data Representation 

&emsp;&emsp;Course Material (WIP):

* { ["**drp**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/drp-data-representation/blob/main/drp-data-representation.ipynb) : &#x1F6A7; } 
<!--
03/09/2021
"update repository ./adb-MySQL. Create cursor instance and execute SQL query."
-->

###### Computational Thinking with Algorithms

&emsp;&emsp;Course Material:

* { ["**Analysing**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/cta-analysing/blob/main/cta-analysing.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 
<!--
22/05/2021
"update repository ./cta-analysing"
-->

* { ["**Recursion**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/cta-recursion/blob/main/cta-recursion.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 
<!-- 
23/08/2021
""
"update repository ./cta-recursion - Fix links."
-->

* { ["**Sorting**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/cta-sorting/blob/main/cta-sorting.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 
<!--
26/05/2021
"update repository ./cta-sorting"
-->

* { ["**Searching**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/cta-searching/blob/main/cta-searching.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 
<!-- 
25/04/2021
"update repository ./cta-searching - Overview of binary search with performance comparison over linear search. Pseudocode along with iterative implementation (recursive implementation outstanding). Walkthrough of iterative and recursion approaches completed in Java."
-->

&emsp;&emsp;End of Semester (May 2021):

* { ["**Project (pdf)**"](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SeanOhAileasa/cta-benchmark-algorithms/main/Computational-Thinking-with-Algorithms-Project-2021.pdf) : &#x1F4CC; } 
	* { ["**Project (src)**"](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/cta-benchmark-algorithms) : &#x1F4CC; } 
<!--
26/05/2021
"add repository ./cta-benchmark-algorithms - Python application to benchmark five different sorting algorithms. In addition, the report introduces the algorithms chosen and discusses the results of the benchmarking process."
-->

###### Fundamentals of Data Analysis

&emsp;&emsp;End of Semester (Dec 2020):

* { ["**Tasks**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fda-tasks/blob/main/Fundamentals-of-Data-Analysis-Tasks-2020.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

* { ["**Project**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fda-regression/blob/main/Fundamentals-of-Data-Analysis-Regression-2020.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

###### Programming for Data Analysis

&emsp;&emsp;End of Semester (Dec 2020):

* { ["**Tasks**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/pda-numpy-random/blob/main/Programming-for-Data-Analysis-Assignment-2020.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

* { ["**Project**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/pda-numpy-random-simulation/blob/main/Programming-for-Data-Analysis-Project-2020.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

###### Applied Databases

<!--
* { ["**MySQL**"](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/adb-MySQL) : &#x1F4CC; }

05/07/2021
"add repository ./adb-MySQL"
-->

<!--
* { ["**MongoDB**"](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/adb-mongodb) : &#x1F4CC; }

06/07/2021
"add repository ./adb-mongodb"
-->

&emsp;&emsp;End of Semester (Aug 2020):

* { ["**Project**"](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/adb-sql-mongodb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

<!-- 
### HSE Ransomware Research

17/05/2021
"add repository ./unc1878"
-->
<!--
### GMIT - Higher Diploma in Science in Computing (Software Dev.)

###### Supplemental Course Material (without Formal Assessment or Qualification) &#x1F6A7;

* { ["**Java**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fubar-java/blob/main/fubar-java.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; }

10/06/2021
"add repository ./fubar-java"
-->
<!--
### GMIT - Certificate in Cybersecurity Operations (SPA - NFQ: L9)

###### Supplemental Course Material (without Formal Assessment or Qualification) &#x1F6A7;

* { ["**Python**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fubar-python/blob/main/fubar-python.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

14/07/2021
"update repository ./fubar-python"
-->

### Republic of Ireland Covid-19 Pandemic (SARS-CoV-2)

###### SARS-CoV-2

* { ["**covid-19-ireland**"](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/covid-19-ireland/blob/master/src/dataset/covid-19-ireland.csv) : &#x1F4CC; }

![Republic of Ireland (SARS-CoV-2) Vaccination Programme](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/SeanOhAileasa/blob/master/rc/covid-19-ireland/RepublicofIrelandSARS-CoV-2VaccinationProgramme.png?raw=true)
[Source (HSE)](https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/news/newsfeatures/covid19-updates/integrated-information-service-vaccination-programme-dashboard.html)
<!-- 
01/09/2021 
"update repository ./covid-19-ireland - Ireland's estimated pop. (per CSO) year end April 2021 at 5,011,500 (published 31/08/2021). Following figures (from 1st April 2021) reflect CSO pop. estimate: i) vaccines administered (1st/2nd dose percentage); ii) vulnerable population percentage; and; iii) 14-day per 100k total cumulative incidence. Figures before 1st April 2021 based on a pop. of 4,761,865 although (per CSO) year end April 2020 should be 4,977,400."
-->

<!--
### Health Service Executive (HSE)

###### Medical Laboratory Aide

* { ["**Laboratory Technician Diploma (NFQ: 5)**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/medical-laboratory-aide/blob/main/medical-laboratory-aide.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; }
-->

Commit message:

update repository ./adb-MySQL. Each transaction on a database must be committed (via method commit). To prevent SQL injection should not pass in any values from a user within a query.

README.md, after:

![GMIT](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/SeanOhAileasa/blob/master/rc/gmit.png?raw=true)

### Graduate of BSc (Hons) Business Computing 🎓</br>University of Wales - Award Classification 2.1

##### Undergraduate (NFQ: 8) Higher Diploma in Data Analytics (GMIT)

###### ⚡ &nbsp;Earned: 60 Credits (Cr) - Total Cr Required: 75 - Stage GPA: 78

###### 🔭 Earning: 15 Cr - Official Semester September-December, 2021

| **GMIT Higher Diploma in Data Analytics Programme:**           | Credits | Grade   |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------|:-------:|:-------:|
| Machine Learning and Statistics (Python) &#x1F6A7;             | 5       | WIP     |
| Multi-Paradigm Programming (C/Java/Python) &#x1F6A7;           | 5       | WIP     |
| Data Representation (JS/API with Python) &#x1F6A7;             | 5       | WIP     |
|                                                                |         |         |
| Programming and Scripting (Python)                             | 10      | 75%     |
| Computer Architecture and Technology Convergence               | 5       | 80%     |
| Web Application Development (HTML/CSS/JavaScript)              | 5       | 80%     |
| Applied Databases (SQL/MongoDB/Python)                         | 5       | 80%     |
| Programming for Data Analysis (Python)                         | 10      | 75%     |
| Fundamentals of Data Analysis (Python)                         | 5       | 83%     |
| Computational Thinking with Algorithms (Python)                | 5       | 85%     |
| Work Placement (Graded Pass/Fail)                              | 15      | PASS    |

### GMIT - Higher Diploma in Science in Computing (Data Analytics)

###### Machine Learning and Statistics 

&emsp;&emsp;Course Material (WIP):

* { ["**mls**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/mls-machine-learning-statistics/blob/main/mls-machine-learning-statistics.ipynb) : &#x1F6A7; } 
<!--
23/08/2021
"update repository ./mls-t-test - A t-test is a statistical test that looks for differences in two collections of numbers. Simulating two collections of random numbers on a bell-shaped curve using numpy. Creating a DataFrame of the two collections generated and using seaborn to get a picture of whats going on."
-->

###### Multi-Paradigm Programming 

&emsp;&emsp;Course Material (WIP):

* { ["**mpp**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/mpp-multi-paradigm-programming/blob/main/mpp-multi-paradigm-programming.ipynb) : &#x1F6A7; } 
<!--
19/08/2021
"update repository ./mpp-multi-paradigm-programming."
-->
* { ["**C**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fubar-c/blob/main/fubar-c.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; }
<!--
30/08/2021
"update repository ./fubar-c - Functions."
-->
* { ["**Python**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fubar-python/blob/main/fubar-python.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; }

* { ["**Java**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fubar-java/blob/main/fubar-java.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; }

###### Data Representation 

&emsp;&emsp;Course Material (WIP):

* { ["**drp**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/drp-data-representation/blob/main/drp-data-representation.ipynb) : &#x1F6A7; } 
<!--
03/09/2021
"update repository ./adb-MySQL. Each transaction on a database must be committed (via method commit). To prevent SQL injection should not pass in any values from a user within a query."
-->

###### Computational Thinking with Algorithms

&emsp;&emsp;Course Material:

* { ["**Analysing**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/cta-analysing/blob/main/cta-analysing.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 
<!--
22/05/2021
"update repository ./cta-analysing"
-->

* { ["**Recursion**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/cta-recursion/blob/main/cta-recursion.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 
<!-- 
23/08/2021
""
"update repository ./cta-recursion - Fix links."
-->

* { ["**Sorting**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/cta-sorting/blob/main/cta-sorting.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 
<!--
26/05/2021
"update repository ./cta-sorting"
-->

* { ["**Searching**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/cta-searching/blob/main/cta-searching.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 
<!-- 
25/04/2021
"update repository ./cta-searching - Overview of binary search with performance comparison over linear search. Pseudocode along with iterative implementation (recursive implementation outstanding). Walkthrough of iterative and recursion approaches completed in Java."
-->

&emsp;&emsp;End of Semester (May 2021):

* { ["**Project (pdf)**"](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SeanOhAileasa/cta-benchmark-algorithms/main/Computational-Thinking-with-Algorithms-Project-2021.pdf) : &#x1F4CC; } 
	* { ["**Project (src)**"](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/cta-benchmark-algorithms) : &#x1F4CC; } 
<!--
26/05/2021
"add repository ./cta-benchmark-algorithms - Python application to benchmark five different sorting algorithms. In addition, the report introduces the algorithms chosen and discusses the results of the benchmarking process."
-->

###### Fundamentals of Data Analysis

&emsp;&emsp;End of Semester (Dec 2020):

* { ["**Tasks**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fda-tasks/blob/main/Fundamentals-of-Data-Analysis-Tasks-2020.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

* { ["**Project**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fda-regression/blob/main/Fundamentals-of-Data-Analysis-Regression-2020.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

###### Programming for Data Analysis

&emsp;&emsp;End of Semester (Dec 2020):

* { ["**Tasks**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/pda-numpy-random/blob/main/Programming-for-Data-Analysis-Assignment-2020.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

* { ["**Project**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/pda-numpy-random-simulation/blob/main/Programming-for-Data-Analysis-Project-2020.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

###### Applied Databases

<!--
* { ["**MySQL**"](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/adb-MySQL) : &#x1F4CC; }

05/07/2021
"add repository ./adb-MySQL"
-->

<!--
* { ["**MongoDB**"](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/adb-mongodb) : &#x1F4CC; }

06/07/2021
"add repository ./adb-mongodb"
-->

&emsp;&emsp;End of Semester (Aug 2020):

* { ["**Project**"](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/adb-sql-mongodb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

<!-- 
### HSE Ransomware Research

17/05/2021
"add repository ./unc1878"
-->
<!--
### GMIT - Higher Diploma in Science in Computing (Software Dev.)

###### Supplemental Course Material (without Formal Assessment or Qualification) &#x1F6A7;

* { ["**Java**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fubar-java/blob/main/fubar-java.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; }

10/06/2021
"add repository ./fubar-java"
-->
<!--
### GMIT - Certificate in Cybersecurity Operations (SPA - NFQ: L9)

###### Supplemental Course Material (without Formal Assessment or Qualification) &#x1F6A7;

* { ["**Python**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/fubar-python/blob/main/fubar-python.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; } 

14/07/2021
"update repository ./fubar-python"
-->

### Republic of Ireland Covid-19 Pandemic (SARS-CoV-2)

###### SARS-CoV-2

* { ["**covid-19-ireland**"](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/covid-19-ireland/blob/master/src/dataset/covid-19-ireland.csv) : &#x1F4CC; }

![Republic of Ireland (SARS-CoV-2) Vaccination Programme](https://github.com/SeanOhAileasa/SeanOhAileasa/blob/master/rc/covid-19-ireland/RepublicofIrelandSARS-CoV-2VaccinationProgramme.png?raw=true)
[Source (HSE)](https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/news/newsfeatures/covid19-updates/integrated-information-service-vaccination-programme-dashboard.html)
<!-- 
01/09/2021 
"update repository ./covid-19-ireland - Ireland's estimated pop. (per CSO) year end April 2021 at 5,011,500 (published 31/08/2021). Following figures (from 1st April 2021) reflect CSO pop. estimate: i) vaccines administered (1st/2nd dose percentage); ii) vulnerable population percentage; and; iii) 14-day per 100k total cumulative incidence. Figures before 1st April 2021 based on a pop. of 4,761,865 although (per CSO) year end April 2020 should be 4,977,400."
-->

<!--
### Health Service Executive (HSE)

###### Medical Laboratory Aide

* { ["**Laboratory Technician Diploma (NFQ: 5)**"](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/SeanOhAileasa/medical-laboratory-aide/blob/main/medical-laboratory-aide.ipynb) : &#x1F4CC; }
-->
